good approach .

suggestion :
1. once file arrive in Cloud Storage instead of sort , load in GBQ staging layer and handle sorting logic in BQ, it will be faster and cost effective

2. if your Requirement is to load data in GBQ , simple write code in Cloud Function to load from Cloud Storage to BQ . no need to DAG

3. To handle all in simple and clean approach go for dataflow , it will do all task :D 

What is Google BigQuery? What are the benefits of BigQuery for data warehouse practitioners?
Google BigQuery is used as a data warehouse and stores all the analytical data in an organization. It organizes the data table into datasets.
Some of the benefits of BigQuery for the data warehouse practitioners are:
	• BigQuery allocates query and storage resources depending on the requirement and usage. Therefore, it doesn’t require the provisioning of resources before usage.
	• It can store data in different formats for efficient storage management. For example, Google’s distributed file system, proprietary format, proprietary columnar format, query access pattern, etc.
	• It is fully maintained and managed without any downtime or hindrance.
	• It provides backup and disaster recovery at a broader level. Users can easily undo changes and revert to a previous state without making a request for the backup recovery

Project Overview: As part of my previous role as a Cloud Solutions Architect, I worked on a project for a large e-commerce company that required the development of a cloud-based data pipeline to move data from various sources into BigQuery for analytics and reporting purposes. The project involved designing and implementing the data pipeline using GCP services such as Cloud Storage, Cloud Composer, and Cloud Functions.
Tasks:
1. Business Requirements: The project started with a deep analysis of the business requirements to identify the data sources that needed to be integrated into BigQuery. The sources included customer data, product data, and order data from multiple systems.
2. Data Pipeline: I designed and implemented a data pipeline using Cloud Storage as a staging area for raw data, Cloud Composer for workflow orchestration, and Cloud Functions to automate data processing tasks and trigger ingestion workflows. The pipeline included several steps such as data extraction, transformation, and loading into BigQuery.
3. Data Modeling: I also designed and implemented data modeling techniques to improve query performance and optimize storage in BigQuery. This involved creating a schema that would optimize query performance by partitioning tables and optimizing joins.
4. Log Monitoring: To monitor and debug the cloud-based systems, I used Log Explorer to analyze logs generated by the data pipeline and other cloud services. This helped to identify and resolve issues and optimize system performance.
5. Automation: I created several Cloud Functions to automate data processing tasks such as data transformation, file processing, and data ingestion workflows. For example, I created a Cloud Function that triggered an ingestion workflow whenever a new file was added to a specific Cloud Storage bucket.
Overall, the project was successful in meeting the business requirements by developing a cloud-based data pipeline that improved performance and scalability, optimized storage in BigQuery, and provided valuable insights for analytics and reporting.

GCS we used for 2 reasons, one to load data from GCS to BQ and another for BQ to GCS data extraction 
 
CF was used to perform above mentioned activity based on triggers 
 
CS was used to schedule CF triggering 
 
Later we moved everything from CF to Composer, where we used composer DAGs for different kind of activities 
 
PubSub we used to trigger CFs, so basically CF was triggered in 3 ways, one based on event, one based on pubsub and one based on CS 
 
And BQ was used to clean, modify data as per the project needs


Bigquery function 

Thursday, March 23, 2023
9:44 PM

Name	Example/Syntax		
Clone	CREATE TABLE `table name new`		
	CLONE `table name exiting`
View			
			
			
			
			

Data Manipulation Language			
Update	update `tablename` 	when you want to update existing rows within a table	
	set name='new name'
	where name='exiting name'
Insert	INSERT `Table name` Values()	Insert vale into table	
Delete	Delete `table name` where condition 	when you want to delete rows from a table	
TRUNCATE	TRUNCATE TABLE `Table name`	removes all rows from a table but leaves the table metadata intact, including the table schema, description, and labels	
		

Windows function

Saturday, March 18, 2023
2:27 AM

Windows function

1.Sum()
2.AVG()
3.COUNT()
4.ROW_NUMBER()
5.RANK()
6.DENSE_RANK()
7.LEAD()
8.LAG()
9.FIRST_VALUE()
10.LAST_VALUE()



Data modeling is the process of creating a conceptual representation of data and its relationships to the business requirements or objectives. It involves identifying the entities (objects, concepts, or things) that are relevant to the business and the relationships between those entities.
The goal of data modeling is to create a structure that is both understandable by humans and usable by computer systems. The resulting model provides a blueprint for how data will be organized and stored in a database, allowing for efficient and effective management of data.
Data modeling typically involves several steps, including:
1. Requirements gathering: Identifying the business requirements and objectives that the data model will support.
2. Conceptual modeling: Creating a high-level, abstract representation of the entities and their relationships.
3. Logical modeling: Creating a more detailed representation of the entities and relationships, including data types, constraints, and rules.
4. Physical modeling: Defining the physical implementation of the data model, including tables, columns, indexes, and other database objects.
Data modeling is an iterative process that involves refining and improving the model based on feedback and changes in the business requirements. A well-designed data model can help ensure data integrity, accuracy, and consistency, and can support more effective decision-making and analysis.
Regenerate response


We developed one data product, 
 
In Accenture multiple teams were holding multiple datasets and they had details of clients, partners, suppliers but the way data was stored was ununiformed, each teams were storing data as per their standards and requirements. 
 
In our data product Accenture decided to keep one Master Data Management System - MDM where all this data will be gathered with uniform naming conventions and organization ID
 
When we started we started with Dummy data and created cloud functions to move data from GCS bucket to Bigquery and then CFs for Bigquery operations
 
Later with changes in requirements we moved from Cloud Functions to Composer and implemented everything using Composer DAGs. 
 
We had 2 dags 1 for outbound and 1 for inbound 
 
First Outbound DAG will run on 1st day of every month at 8AM where we had data in one datalake from there we will bring it into staging data, from staging  the data was moved to OriginLookup table where we masked few data as we have to send this data to another 3rd party, to do that we first fetched this masked data into GCS using BQtoGCS Airflow operator and we created CSV files. 
 
After this there were control M jobs used to put this csv files into SFTP servers and this files will be picked by that 3rd party company DNB, it is a company which holds data for all the major companies in world, about their main branches and sub branches and headquarters everything 
 
This DNB will add one duns number and some other fields to the data and put the file again in SFTP server and there were another control M jobs which was used to bring this updated files back into datalake. 
 
Once we have the updated data in datalake we used another inbound dag which was scheduled every 17th day of each month in this dag we had raw data which came from SFTP and it  will move to insights where we had some mappings to do, for example data from 2 raw data will move in 1 insight table and from 1 raw table it will move into 2 insights table like wise whatever the requirements we implemented accordingly. From insights we moved data into delta table where we implemented Delta logic which is to only bring latest inserted/updated data from insight table. After this we had Organization dataload where we will ad ORG ID to each unique entity to make the data uniform and from there it will move into final data product from where every team can search the entity using that OrgID. 
 
We have also implemented logger in this whole flow using SQL and Python 


My name is Kailas,
 I'm from Pune Maharashtra
 I completed my BE degree In SKN Sinhgad collage Pune
I have been with Accenture in 3 .5 year 
On the college campus, I got placed in an Accenture
I have been with Accenture for 3.5 years
I have been in the Accenture for over 3.5 year, primary working in bigquery,cloud funtion,cloud sheduler and cloud composer.
I most recently worked on a Accenture internal project in which my responsibility was Designed and implemented data pipelines to move data from various sources to BigQuery, Cloud Storage using cloud function and composer.
Now I'm looking to expand my experience which is why I'm interested in joing an your company  
But in project I have mostly worked on GCP services like BQ GCS, Function , Composer
I am really looking forward to work here as I know I have the right skill that are required for this position.



That concept or situation is new for me. I'll have look into it a bit more



Why are you looking for job change.
I am thankful to my previous organization because I learnt a lot of things from there.
According to me changes are necessary for everyone to enhance your skills.
Knowledge and personal growth and Financial Growth. 
Your organization is a good platform where I can learn more. 


Why should you hire?
The job role seems good fit to me consideration my experience and future aspirations
The job role seems to be a good fit for me, considering my experience and future aspirations

I have strong work ethic.
I am fast learner and very enthusiastic about this company and the job.
I believe my motivation and commitment will ensure that I quickly productive and valued of your team

Do you have any question 
How is the working model currently in Ibm

Workflow 
1.Understanding the project requirement 
 the first step is to understand the project's scope objective and requirement 
This involves working with stakeholder to clarify their need and expectation and identifying any protentional challenges or roadblocks.
Data Modeling and architecture design: 
Once I have a clear understanding of the project requirement then I start designing the data architecture and modeling the data according to the project needs.

This involves selecting the appropriate GCP services   such as dataflow bigquery, composer, cloud function.
Also I write custom code in languages such as python to transform and process the data needed.

Quality assurance and testing :
Before deploying the data processing pipeline. I perform thorough testing and quality assurance to ensure that the pipeline as reliable, scalable and efficient.

Deployment and monitoring:
Once the data processing pipeline are thoughly tested. 
I deploy them to the production envirment and monitor there performance and reliability using GCP tool like Stack driver.

Maintence and Support :
Finally I provide ongoing maintence and supportv  for the data processing pipelines, including bug fixes performance optimization, and troubleshooting as needed

