Hello and welcome to this introductory course
on Google Cloud Platform that we call Google Cloud Concepts.
Now, the purpose of this course is enact
as a start here location for a high-level introduction
to Google Cloud Platform
using what we're going to refer
to as oversimplification of concepts.
Our objective in this course
is to not go into any sort of technical detail,
but rather to provide a beginner's frame of reference
that will act as a foundation for more advanced studies
down the road, or alternatively,
this would be a great beginner's point of reference
for more the business side
if you just need to learn the basics
of how Google Cloud works
for maybe evaluating for business decisions.
As a result,
there will be a minimum of terminology given in this course.
There are a few pieces of terminology
we are going to throw out
but nothing really too complicated.
So what exactly is the cloud
and what exactly is Google Cloud for that matter?
Let's start by talking about what exactly is the cloud.
Now, I'm sure you're familiar with different icons
such as these different applications services
with some sort of a cloud icon or backdrop to it.
Maybe you've used iCloud on your iPhone,
or you may have used other cloud-based services
such as Google Drive, or maybe even Dropbox or OneDrive.
You may have heard sales pitches
such as "Protect your files in the cloud."
Microsoft had a famous campaign about 10 years ago
where their slogan was "To the cloud!"
And other different types
of cloud-based sales pitches like that.
But what exactly is this whole cloud thing
that every technology company these days is talking about?
Now, opinions may vary depending on who you ask
as to what the cloud is
and whether it is beneficial or not.
You may have seen images like these in comics
or different places on the internet.
Someone asking what are clouds made of
and someone responding, "Mostly Linux servers."
Which actually is partially true.
Others may tend to have a bit more of a negative
or pessimistic view on the cloud,
believing that there's really nothing special about it
because when it comes down to it,
it only is just someone else's computer
and really nothing special beyond that.
Now, the cloud is indeed a remote computer that you work of.
However, I would make the case
that it does do a bit more than you can do
merely by working on someone else's computer.
So when we're talking about what the cloud really is,
at least from an overly simplified definition,
I want you to think of a computer
that is essentially somewhere else.
It is a computer that you don't own that is stored
or ran by another organization or person.
However, you are remotely utilizing
or taking advantage of that computing capacity.
And again, this is a very, very oversimplified definition
of what the cloud is.
But going forward, think about the cloud being a computer
or as we're going to explain further,
a group of computers that is somewhere else
that you are somehow accessing.
Now, in reality,
when you're working or interfacing with the cloud,
you're not working just with a single remote computer,
but rather you're working with a group of computers,
specifically remote server racks of computers
that you would see in a data center that looks
a little bit something like this.
Now, regardless of what cloud-based application
or service you're running or using,
whether it's an iCloud or Google Drive,
Google Cloud Platform, Amazon Web Services or whatever,
your data is not floating around
in some sort of ethereal cyberspace,
rather it is housed in one of these data centers
for whatever service or provider you're using
on one of these particular server racks.
And these data centers, which house your data
in a number of server racks,
are located in different places all over the world.
So let's talk about what specifically
is Google Cloud Platform
in light of what we just talked about. So Google
Cloud Platform, or GCP for short, is one of a number
of globally available cloud services providers.
Now, the type of cloud services they offer,
just get a little bit into the technical jargon,
is known as either Infrastructure as a Service
or Platform as a Service.
And those 2 different types of services are different
depending on what specifically you're doing on the platform.
Now, Google Cloud as well as other cloud service providers
are commonly known for being able to provide remote storage,
remote computing capacity, or remote application hosting,
and also being able to provide a remote database as well.
However, a cloud services provider such as Google Cloud
is able to offer so much more than these simple functions
such as big data, machine learning, developer tools,
advanced analytics, advanced security features
that are unique to services like Google Cloud.
Now, you don't have to memorize
what these different concepts are for this course.
However, the main takeaway is that,
whereas you may be familiar with cloud services
such as iCloud or Google Drive
for remotely storing documents,
that is only just a small subset
of what the cloud actually is, especially
when you're talking about major cloud service providers
such as Google Cloud.
So let's talk about the real important question.
Why do we care about capabilities like this
on both a personal and an enterprise level?
What are the benefits of using Google Cloud Platform
in the cloud in general?
And most importantly,
how is working with modern cloud services
different than past IT practices?
So let's first start by talking
about some common personal uses of cloud services.
Let's say, for example,
that you're working from your home computer
and you're using a service such as iCloud,
Google Drive, Dropbox,
or any number of personal cloud services.
What these services allow that you do
is really 2 main purposes.
Number 1, it acts as a convenient point of backup.
And what we mean by that
is that the risk of losing hardware
is whether through a hard drive crashing
or maybe you accidentally throw your mobile phone
into a lake.
Losing your computing device
regardless of what format that is in,
if your data is only on that device
or your hard drive crashes, you lose your data.
You lose your files.
You lose your important family photos.
What different personal cloud services allow you to do
is act as a point of backup.
And when you upload your files, your pictures,
or documents or whatever else to the cloud,
if your mobile phone crashes,
if it takes a bath in the lake,
if your home computer hard drive crashes or whatever,
your files are safe
because they are being backed up in the cloud
and the loss of your device or the loss of your hard drive
does not mean a loss of data.
Additionally, using these cloud services
allow you to also share your data as well.
And we're not talking about just sharing with other people.
You can also share it with yourself
from other devices that you own.
For example, if you use Google Docs
or a similar web-based document service,
you can type a document on your home computer,
and then be able to access that exact same document
from your mobile phone
or maybe even from your work computer as well.
And that's because the files don't live on your computer,
rather, they live in the cloud
and you can work on those files in the cloud
regardless of what type of device you're working on,
whether it's a smartphone, home computer or whatever.
So keeping that in mind,
that's going to introduce us
to our first 2 pieces of terminology
that we are going to use in this course.
And that is fault tolerance and high availability.
Now, again, this is an oversimplification of these concepts.
When we get into the actual public cloud platforms,
there's a little bit of a different definition.
But you can think of fault tolerance
as what we just talked about
where if your home computer hard drive,
if your mobile phone dies,
if your files are only on those devices,
your data is gone.
However, if they are backed up in the cloud,
even if your smartphone dies or your hard drive crashes,
yes, you lost the device,
but your files and your data is still safe.
It also goes hand in hand with high availability
where your data, your files,
and your photos are always available
regardless of what device you're working with
or where you're physically located at.
No matter where you are,
no matter what computing device you are using,
your data is always accessible.
And again, this is a huge oversimplification,
but fault tolerance and high availability
are 2 key pieces of terminology
when it comes to what cloud computing does differently
from a traditional IT model.
And it is good to know going forward.
So with that in mind,
let's now take a look at common enterprise
or business uses of cloud services.
And let's especially compare them to how businesses use
IT and technology for planning capacity
in the traditional IT or data center model.
So let's say, for example, this is a business
such as some sort of a software company
and they house all of their own computing resources
for a public-facing application within their own data center
that they run and operate
and are completely responsible for.
So we're going to say that they have an application
that in the year 2016,
they had an average of 1,000 users
using that particular application
that they needed to be able to support.
So for this example,
we're going to say that for 1,000 users,
they need to use it 3 servers
in order to be able to support those users
and provide a high level of service
for an overall good application experience.
So everything's great.
The application is doing well and getting very popular.
Now, we're going to say that for the year 2017,
this software company is projecting
or predicting that their user base
is going to increase from 1,000 to 5,000 users.
As a result,
they need to add additional computing capacity
in order to be able to support those users.
So what does a traditional IT services company do?
Well, they have to buy those servers again.
They are responsible for 100%
of the entire computing hosting process.
So what's this look like?
This means I have to go out and buy additional servers.
And for this example, we're just going to say
they need to buy 3 additional servers for 6 total
in order to be able to support 5,000 users.
Now, this is actually quite the undertaking.
Number 1, it's quite expensive.
They have to pay for these servers upfront
and hope it is a good long-term investment.
Then, once they had these servers,
they have to find a room in their own data center.
And they have to actually set up all the physical hardware,
install the operating systems
and everything else that comes along
with setting up their own in-house server environment.
But after quite a bit of cost and time invested,
they have their new servers
in their data center up and running.
Well, this is great.
The application is still doing well.
And for 2018, this company is predicting that, "Hey,
"we're going to grow a lot and we're going to need
"to support 20,000 users using our application."
So, of course, this means they need to invest
in more servers and they are predicting
they're going to need about 15 of these high-end servers
to be able to support 20,000 users at once.
So what do they do?
They have to, again, upfront purchase additional servers
which is quite a huge expense.
And then, go through the process
of finding room in their data center,
setting up all these servers,
again, a very large time and financial investment
for what they are predicting
they're going to be doing next year.
However, there's a little bit of a problem.
Yes, their application was growing.
However, for 2018,
they only had a max of 7,000 users,
not the 20,000 users that they initially predicted
they would have to support.
So as a result, they are only utilizing
7 of the 15 servers that they purchased upfront.
Now, that extra competing capacity is there which is great.
However, a large number of their servers
are essentially being unutilized
and they paid a pretty large amount of money upfront,
and they're not getting their return on investment from it.
And especially for a growing software company,
this huge upfront investment
that they're not getting their return on investment from
could be a substantial financial strain
as a result of the traditional data service
or on-premises model.
So let's go ahead and flip this around and see how the cloud
helps with these issues or these problems
that we just talked about.
So we have our software company here again.
And instead of using their own data center
and their own equipment that they have to purchase upfront,
they are instead using a public cloud provider
such as Google Cloud Platform
to instead host their servers again.
So we have a similar set up here again.
In the year 2016,
we had 1,000 users that need to be supported.
Everything is great there.
And over time, their user base is growing.
And notice we're not even calculating years here
because the time period actually doesn't matter
because they are not as constrained by time
to get the additional resource
they need for their application.
We're going to say that their user base
has grown from 1,000 users to 4,000 users.
And as a result, they can almost instantly
add on the additional computing capacity they need
with that public cloud provider such as Google Cloud.
They don't have to purchase the servers upfront.
They don't have to set them up.
They don't have to wait for delivery.
They can basically just click a few buttons
and almost like a magic,
that additional computing capacity
appears for them as they need it.
Now, let's say that for whatever reason that their user base
shrunk from 4,000 to 3,000 users which obviously
isn't that great from an application standpoint.
However, from a computing capacity standpoint,
it's really no big deal
because they're not purchasing these servers upfront,
rather they are only utilizing the service
as they need them.
They can just remove that additional virtual server
that they don't need
which ensures that they only use
as much computing capacity, in this case,
number of remote servers that they actually need
to support however many users they have at that moment.
And the most important and best part
is that this entire process is automatic.
The process of going from 1,000 users to 4,000 users,
to 3,000 users and creating and removing
the number of servers that they need to support them
is completely automated.
They don't have to mainly do that themselves.
Now, this will introduce us
to our 2 additional cloud technology terms
we're going to cover throughout this course,
and it's scalability and elasticity.
Now, one is a direct opposite of the other.
The cloud term of scalability essentially means
that as your need for more computing capacity
or as your need for more servers
to support your users increases,
the cloud will automatically scale up
or add those additional servers that you need.
So if an application goes from 1,000 users to 4,000 users,
the cloud platform or the cloud services provider
will automatically add
those additional servers that are needed
in order to make sure that your application works well.
Now, the other term here is elasticity
which is essentially the opposite of scalability.
As your user base shrinks from 4,000 users to 3,000 users,
your cloud services providers such as Google Cloud
will, again, automatically remove that computing capacity
that you're not using.
So at any point of time,
you are ensured that you are only using
just the right amount of remote server
or remote computing capacity
that you need at that given moment.
And this also means that you don't have to pay
for that entire computing capacity upfront.
So again, think of scalability
as automatically growing the number of servers that you need
and elasticity as reducing the amount of servers
that you need, again, automatically based
on how many people are using your application
at any given point of time.
This is, again, very different
from the traditional on-premises IT model
in which you have to predict how many users that you need,
buy everything upfront, hope you predicted correctly.
Rather the cloud model
automatically grows and shrinks as you need
and you only pay for what you need at that exact moment.
So before we move on,
let's quickly do a quick recap
of what we've discussed so far.
We discussed that for at least the purposes of this course,
think of the cloud as a remote computer
that you do a variety of things with.
And then for that matter,
Google Cloud is a cloud services provider
that provides Infrastructure and Platform as a Service.
Again, the terminology is not too important for this course,
but just know that it is a provider
of different types of cloud services.
Our 4 pieces of cloud terminology
go over the main benefits or advantages
of what a cloud services provider offers over and beyond
what just a simple remote computer gives you.
And that's fault tolerance in which if your device dies,
if your hard drive or your smartphone dies,
your files are still safe.
High availability, which allows you to access your data
in whatever format regardless of where in the world you are.
And we have our terms of scalability and elasticity
which are terms in which a cloud services provider
such as Google Cloud allows you to automatically
grow or shrink whatever amount of computing capacity
that you need at that given moment.
So let's quickly talk about what is next
and what we're going to be doing
throughout the rest of this course.
Now, if you do a online search for Google Cloud Architecture
or Google Cloud Diagrams,
you're going to see something that looks
a little bit like this,
although the part are going to be a bit more complex
than what you see here.
But this is what we are going to cover
where, again, from a high-level
and overly simplified standpoint,
we're going to talk about some of the key services
of what makes Google Cloud work.
We're going to talk about what exactly is a VPC,
what is a compute engine or a virtual server.
We're going to talk about remote databases
and class storage and some other basic cloud concepts,
again, from a high-level perspective
to give you a good frame of reference
of how the different pieces of Google Cloud
all work together.
And throughout this, we're going to be talking
about one of Google Cloud's big
or well-known customers in Spotify.
Spotify uses Google Cloud for 100% of their servers.
And we're going to talk about how,
in the course of using Spotify from a consumer perspective
whether it's looking at music, getting recommendations,
how that service or application uses Google Cloud
to perform the different functions that you're doing
on the application itself.
So with that said,
we're going to go ahead and wrap up this lesson
for our introduction to Google Cloud.
Over the next few lessons,
we're going to be talking about the different components
that you see here and a couple other additional ones,
again, from a beginner's perspective.
So with that said,
go ahead and conclude this lesson.
Mark it as complete.
And I will see you in the next one
in which we're going to take a closer look
at some of the key pieces of Google Cloud Platform.
And I will see you then.
