I am extremely motivated by professional growth. During my current job role, I have always looked for ways to upskill myself and utilize my communication, problem-solving skills and perseverance to resolve the issues that have come up. Completing a task successfully within a specific time frame gives me a sense of accomplishment and drives me to do my best.

I am happy with my current job role however I expect my leads to reach out to me more and make use of my capabilities and skills to the fullest extent. Considering all of the contributions I have made to this project, I firmly believe to receive proper recognition and acknowledgement of my work by providing me growth and opportunities in my career.



Certifications and Trainings -

1. Completed GCP Associate Cloud Engineer certification.
2. Completed GCP Professional Data Engineer certification.
3. Completed Oracle OCI Foundations certification.
4. Completed all the mandatory trainings by Accenture i.e. DLF 3.0, NewIT, ISA, TQ 12/12 etc.
5. Achieved P3 proficiency in Google cloud Machine lerning, cloud sql and Cloud Dataflow on myCompetency.
6. Currently I am preparing for GCP Professional Securty Engineer and certifications on other trending technologies.
7.I got 3 awards from project and client side 
1.	A-Team award, 
2.	The Extra Mile Award and 
3.	Bronze Badge. 


Long-Term Goals -

1. Certify myself with the trending technologies e.g. - ML, Cloud etc.
2. Work extensively on R, Excel, SQL, Python, AWS,Azure etc. to achieve in-depth knowledge on cloud and improve analytical skills for data/business analysis.


Non - Project Activities -
1.I have participated tree plantation in Accenture Pune.
2. Completed filling myTE and Effort/Availability trackers on time.
3. Actively participated in all the team meetings and activities.
4. Conducted knowledge transition sessions and cleared doubts of team members regarding various GCP cloud services.
5. Created System Understanding Documents (SUDs) for majority of the GCP cloud services to provide better insights.
6. Maintained the company's system in compliance with Accenture policies and kept regular check on emails and texts.
7. I contributed 2 ideas to GTIC titled - "Smart Vehicle Parking System Using IOT" and "Stock Market Prediction Using Data Analytics" under Innovate for Business and Innovate for Society categories respectively.



Project Activities -

1. My knowledge extends to all the GCP services aspects; worked on Bigquery,GCS,Cloud Function,Cloud composer,cloud dataflow,cloud scheduler,cloud pub/sub cloud logging etc.
2. I have worked on Azure CI/CD piplelines 
3. Taking complete ownership of work items and deliver them
4. Developed a Python (Pandas, Numpy and OpenPyxl) script to work on 24 RF text/csv files for Axiom Roll-Forward process.
5. Completed  Azure boards  stories with minimal defects.
6. No rework / defects in the project delivery..
7. Gained Functional expertise in different module areas.
8.Designed and implemented data pipelines to move data from various sources to BigQuery, Cloud Storage using cloud
function and composer.
9.Created Cloud Functions to automate data processing tasks and trigger data ingestion workflows.
10.Designed and implemented data modeling techniques to improve query performance and optimize storage in BigQuery.
11. I have been working in the night shifts from past 8 months with negligible leaves. My average shift time lasts for 12+ hours approximately.
12.I work on a shift-wise project that requires me to be available at different times, and I have always been flexible with my schedule to ensure that the project is completed on time and to the satisfaction of the client.
13.I have often gone above and beyond my regular duties to ensure that the project is completed successfully. For example, I have worked extra hours to complete urgent tasks and have been available outside of my regular working hours to resolve any issues that may arise.


Short-Term Goals -

1. I am aiming towards taking care of my health and maintaining a better work-life balance.
2. Improving my productivity to contribute more.
