Hello and welcome back to our course
on Google Cloud Concepts. We're
going to continue our discussion on the core components
that make up the primary pieces of Google Cloud.
And now we're going to talk about what exactly is
a virtual private cloud or a VPC for short?
And once again as a reminder,
this is going to be a high-level overly simplified
discussion of a virtual private cloud.
We are purposely leaving out some of the finer details,
but our objective is to provide specifically a beginner's
frame of reference that we can then use to build upon
for more advanced concepts further on down the road.
So let's again go back to our simplified diagram
that we've been using throughout this course
with our Spotify example.
So we are accessing the Spotify application
over a public internet connection.
Accessing the application itself
on a Compute Engine instance.
However, notice that within our Google Cloud diagram,
we have our white box for the entirety of Google Cloud,
but we also have this smaller box inside of Google Cloud
called a VPC in which we have our Compute Engine instances.
That is again where Spotify itself lives at.
And we also have the database itself,
which we're going to get to here in the next lesson.
So what exactly is this VPC box that our Compute Engine
and everything else is sitting inside of?
So the easiest way to think of a VPC,
or a virtual private cloud,
in the context of Google Cloud Platform
is it is simply a private network on Google Cloud
that you can place resources on your own private network.
So let's break down a simple example.
What exactly we mean by a private network
versus the public internet.
So for the example we're going to use,
we're going to talk about a simple home network,
which hopefully you may be familiar with.
In our example here,
we have the public internet on the left side.
That is of course publicly available sites,
such as Facebook, Google, Amazon,
or maybe even a publicly available
Google Cloud storage bucket.
And on the right side, we have your home network,
probably with a WiFi router, maybe, maybe not.
But within our home network on your WiFi router,
you have devices such as maybe a smartphone, tablet,
a laptop, or maybe even a network enabled printer as well.
Now within your home WiFi network,
these devices are able to communicate with each other.
So for example,
your smartphone can communicate with your printer
or maybe your laptop can print to your network printer
on your home WiFi network.
The main thing to keep in mind though,
is that these are internal only communications.
That means that your smartphone can talk to your laptop,
which can also talk to your printer,
which is all facilitated by your home router.
But all that communication is done privately,
completely shielded off from the outside world
from an internal or private network.
So we can most easily define a private network as a network
which uses specifically internal network or IP addresses
to communicate with each other on the private network only,
which is completely blocked off from the public internet.
So let's bring this back to the Google Cloud example
in which we're trying to define
what is a virtual private cloud on Google Cloud.
Just think of a virtual private cloud as your home network
on Google Cloud, in which you can create resources
like Compute Engine instances that can use
internal network addresses to communicate with each other
privately and completely shielded from the public internet.
Now, of course, Google Cloud is a little bit different
from your home network in that these resources
also have the option to use an additional public address
to have both a public facing network address
and a private network address at the same time.
So let's, once again,
go back to our sample network diagram
with the Spotify example to see how exactly this plays out.
So from the previous lesson,
we talked about how the Spotify application itself is hosted
on a Compute Engine instance or a virtual server
where the actual website and application itself lives.
Now the server that the website lives on
is on this private network.
However, the server also has a public facing
address as well.
That means when we are accessing our Spotify server,
we are accessing over a public
or an external internet connection.
At the same time, this Compute Engine instance
that is hosting the Spotify application
needs to be able to refer to an internal database
that is completely blocked off in the public internet
over a private or an internal connection.
This means that we are accessing the server
where the application is hosted over the public internet
on the private network.
Then at the same time, the server is accessing
a private database over a private
or internal network connection that is completely
blocked off from the outside world.
So as a recap,
you can simply think of a virtual private cloud, or a VPC,
as your own private network on Google Cloud,
in which you could place a variety of Google Cloud
resources, and which gives you the ability to either allow
or restrict different types of public or private network
traffic to them as well.
That's going to go ahead and wrap up this lesson.
Go ahead and mark it as complete and move on to our next one
in which we're going to talk about those databases
that we saw in the previous slide,
and talk about how that incorporates
into the big picture as well.
I'll see you then.
